oh and we have so many wonderful people
to present that's great
Nico do you want to maybe actually first
first let's do introductions
introductions are important
let's do around to that and then Nico
maybe you can take it away and talk a
little bit about the work you've been
doing and so I'm Molly I'm the captain
of the local offline collaboration
working group just working group in the
wider ipfs project really about
connecting the the work that we're doing
around decentralized applications with
all of the amazing people who are
thinking about how to make technology
and the internet and software more
accessible to people who want to
collaborate locally have maybe poor
bandwidth or connectivity constraints
and spend a lot of time kind of
shuttling between all of the working
groups inside ipfs who are working on
this and people in the external
community and trying to document the the
challenges and pain points and get them
so they're improved upon and all of the
various working groups so I'm your
brainstorm buddy if there's anything
that you know people people see as
something that we can really make make
progress on from an engineering
perspective I'm just gonna kind of call
on people based on how you happen to be
arrayed on my zoom screen so hopefully
that sounds good Chris you are the
person next to me
you want to give me a job sure I'm here
just out of personal interest in the
project I've always been working on
offline stuff if you don't know me I
guess one of the things I did back in
the day was apache couchdb and found
Couchbase and so for me a lot of the and
built a couch based mobile project and
so for me a lot of the brainstorming has
always been around user cases like what
happens when a handful of people are
standing up a new network and they're
fully disconnected so how do you support
those news places so mostly I'm just
here to watch and I've got to drop early
I've got to get to another meeting
awesome well thank you thank you for
attending and excited too if there's
anything you cool you want to demo
feel free to slot yourself in early so
that we get you before you drop off and
awesome Jonathan you are below me
yeah so I've been building like this
network of official hardware for
disaster recovery
starting with Mozilla grand project and
now I'm yeah I'm basically working with
a couple of different clients on Winfred
stuff so one of it is using Laura or for
kind of a similar setup and the other is
actually we're talking with vertical for
museums to be able to share data which
mean some housing artists and stuff like
that
that's pretty good words
awesome good good to see you again as
always Miko you are right below me do
you want to go next
sure
hi Thank You Molly for inviting me I am
Nicholas I'm part of right now I
actually changed hacked so now I'm part
of a PC institution for cohesive
communications a PC has been working for
30 years in klingons affordable access
to the global south and has been also
part of the of the internet foundation
in many levels of countries so and I'm
part of this process of a PC trying to
get more in to helping communities
achieve this goal getting connected by
themself approach that anther Monique
has been having for many years my
previous lab actually might like my
impairment in fact these are term only
it's an organization promotes
[Music]
do-it-yourself a do-it-yourself approach
to infrastructure deployment in
particularly in different structure and
the purpose of this is actually not
about infrastructure but about community
organization what we think is by doing
this kick free approach so networks
people can get together and by getting
together they will accomplish networks
and many many other things so it's kind
of a social hack using technology in
between I will share little bit more
later awesome thank you so much Dominic
you're diagonally down for me hey
everyone my name is Dominic I work for
protocol labs on one of Molly's teams so
I like to sit in on these things and
hear what people are doing and
specifically listening for like pain
points and things like that and see if
there's anything we can do to help
alleviate some of that stuff so yeah I'm
interested in hearing what everyone says
phenomenal Thank You Terry you want to
go next
yeah I'm impressed that you pointed
actually pointed at me on my screen - um
it's very Brady Bunch of us I'm Terry
Chadbourne I so I got into decentralized
web because I was first involved with
the offline first movement would you
focus on meeting stuff
just work on crappy networks or
non-existent networks all of that and I
heard about decentralized so while I was
at offline camp which is an event I've
been planning for a few years focused on
that offline first community so I'll
tell you more about that later but I
currently work I used to work for
cloudian which was essentially couch TV
of the service hosted and now I work for
protocol labs where I'm running a
project called proto school which is
sort a temp team to make it easy to get
started with the decentralized web
through tutorials
awesome Jim do you your diagonally down
for me uh hi I work at protocol labs and
working on dynamic data and capabilities
group and my thing is peer pad so that
should be the new version should be
launching like really really soon
because we have it persisting you ipfs
IPL d that's really exciting next step
for that one I think beyond that
probably the next experiment for it on
deck is going to be making it work
offline so very interested in this stuff
awesome we used it in a meeting I think
last week and it was fantastic it worked
perfectly it was better than our
previous note-taking tools and it was
all markdown friendly and I can't wait
for for other people we definitely did
use the dev dotnet so living forward for
that one being economical one tea drink
you are two down for me wanna go hello
nice to meet you everybody this is my
first meeting of this group and my first
week at protocol labs very excited to be
here I worked on various offline related
projects that Mozilla for a long time
before coming here and ran a few student
projects around research that we did in
places like Brazil and kind of meeting
people on the web meet needs for things
like long commutes with limited
connectivity or expensive connectivity
so I'm really interested to see what the
group here
awesome excited to have you and finally
I'm gonna butcher this name but durable
- I'm students in cybersecurity and I'm
I've been interested by EPF s while I
was rushing for how I can save bandwidth
in multiple in my school versus leaves
for downloading apps and the idea of
registrants realizing the web is
actually some things that I found quite
quite useful and maybe it's called
mischief teachers or I'm sure cause us
awesome excited to have you if folks
don't constantly follow a repo there was
a great kind of explanation from Jericho
about the use case like right up I would
love to hear more about that in this
meeting as well okay what would you
right now Austin and we cannot do to be
agenda you know jump in first and then
talk about that in a little bit all
right Nico I believe you are our first
agenda item so do you want to maybe give
a brief overview for people who are not
familiar with kind of the research
you've been doing and then maybe we can
kind of help you with with some
questions about like kind of insides and
and learnings and all the work you've
been doing awesome Thank You Molly I
think research is kind of a big word for
me at least I don't feel in my I don't
call myself a researcher but I have been
working in committee networks for two
years and a half already have had the
opportunity to visit communities in all
of the corners of the planet hearing
about their needs and hearing about and
helping them I working together with
them to explore connecting themselves to
to each other first and also to the
internet and
and that comment like that conversation
happening in a really like like this
being connected or not connected or
connected to what or who do we want to
connect to and all those conversations
that are usually difficult to discuss so
we met with Matt from former ipfs
protocol Lance and he started hearing my
stories and what I had to say and I said
okay let's we need to do something
together and I said yet of course they
take a piece you're building another you
should be aware it should from my point
of view like okay holla so half of the
planet is disconnected I think that some
a little a little bit of background is
needed so half of the planet has been
connected thirty years have passed since
the internet started and the market a
cities has been capable of connecting
half of the planet and if we usually say
that the plot the part that has been
connected has been the easy part like
most of the people in urban cities the
people that is that has enough income to
pay for connectivity in an open market
and the people that every now and then
can access any open hotspot that
municipalities or governments can open
but it certainly doesn't get to everyone
it and it doesn't get to the rural
places of your nearby city for sure I
mean if you look around if you go 50
kilometres or a hundred kilometres from
where you live already into the rural
areas the most the the big there's a big
chance that the people over there has a
very crappy connection or no not
connection at all and what happens
basically because the market is not able
to provide services in places where
people that when investment is too high
so the capital explained the capex is
too high or where people are not able to
pay for the service
were like well people's disposable
income is too low for the market to be
providing services so basically the
companies do the math and they say well
I will not I'm not interested in coming
to markets or service and the
government's strategy is to provide
service in those areas have been
basically extending the market's
capabilities as as far as they can and
it has worth half of the Spanish
population three billion people are
connected but the three other billion
people and not only the ones that are
unconnected and happy now connected
thirty years ago and we'd probably be
connected unconnected for the following
30 years the speed the the the market
growth has dramatically decreased so the
capacity of the market to get to those
places is really like what I probably
will not get there and this and the
government's have no tool to approach to
this program so what we have been
working from all term only enough from a
PC and many other organizations like
Lisa matica like since Eleni like
Mozilla has a program to community
networks our article 19 and many many
other organizations around Internet
Society of course has been supporting
communities that said ok market if you
don't want to get as far as where we are
it's fine just stay where you are we
will provide ourselves with connectivity
and how well it deploy infrastructure
like the way the operators to the way
the companies do by by their own means
with their own values in the other own
way with their own homes
and when this is happening all over the
plates I have some photos to share with
you while we talk so I don't have a
slideshow so you will have to bear with
me while I work through my photo albums
but I will share my screen now so you
can
see a little bit of my journey so okay
you should be watching looking at my
screen okay so let's start with this
yeah so recently my hard drive my backup
car died my only hard I broke so I had
to recover and some of the pictures are
not there but I will try to show some of
them so this is in Mexico ceviche this
this is indigenous University in the
rural mountains for Hakka Mexico and the
university was entitled by the local
authorities to create infrastructure for
themselves and please stop me at any
point if you have any questions about
what you are seeing and also I am really
bad at keeping track of time so if
anyone can stop me just stop me thank
you for you and trying when we hit about
20 minutes I'll try and flag it down
thank you and we can carry on later if
you want I mean after the hour if you
want to see more pictures or do we have
more questions just reach me the idea
would be to see how we can help us in
relation to this is how can they needs
of the unconnected be supported by
peer-to-peer technologies and they
ultimate goal for at least sorry the
opportunity for beautiful technologies
from my perspective is to be able to
rewrite the social dynamics of the
internet from then connected on because
then can indeed are half of the world's
population it's difficult to change the
behavior of those that are already
connected but it's extremely easy to
support those that are incarnated in
creating their own means of
communication and by connecting those
then well you have 50% of the people
that will be connected using your
technology so I think there's a bee
collaboration there that can happen and
I'm happy to support that if you're
interested in organized so if you're the
plan your own infrastructure then you
have to know how infrastructure works if
it happened to me I meant as a systems
engineer and some of my pals in universe
in the university didn't know how a
computer works or never opened a
computer in their lives so but these
people have to do it by themselves so
they started opening like opening the
box of the computer in this case the box
of the network so part of the workshops
that we facilitate are in relation to
getting to know the infrastructure and
how it works and what elements are
involved in that process so in this case
they were understanding how antennas
world and the diagrams in the background
show how the elements are interconnected
to each other and of course so we try to
we have a strong position in terms of
gender and we try to influence that when
we give the workshops and create equal
opportunities for both men and women and
non-binary groups and so in the
workshops it's usually quite diverse so
this is this is they convey the type of
landscape that you can see in the
communities from the name in fact that
sorry my mistake
hold on so the landscape not not the
clothes but the landscape like it's
really really mountainous it's full of
trees it's very ruler in order to get
there you have to you buy a car it's
five hours and by bus is 12 hours from
the nearby city so the communities end
up being in a very rural are in very
rural places where definitely the market
is not gonna get there and they learn
from the very very basics like these are
learning how to do network cables and
from network cables how to interconnect
two computers and then three computers
and then any amount of computer through
cables and then wireless links and how
wireless links can help them get from
point A to point B without cables and
from there we talk about what computers
can be used for when they are
interconnected to each other and we
start iterating on that idea we do well
whoever altering small workshops using
LibreOffice - what to do Web authoring
but then we talk about the pincer person
the possibilities of open source and
then we jump back and forth in between I
like this very bare very hands-on
activities and concept concepts of what
things can be done with networks the
tricky part is that from our perspective
the problem the problem in the current
state of the Internet is they are the
only cables they own the equipment they
own the wireless links they on the
computers but then when they when you go
to the so the software that - the uses
of the network you you again have the
centralization problem they own
infrastructure but they don't own what
happens on top of the infrastructure so
it's basically the road to the closest
server is provided that is that has
nothing to do with themselves one of the
one of the communities
let me see if I have that you have a
question in the chat from joram oh yes
sorry what tank is used to make the
network what so we okay so we start from
the very bare bones so they start
learning how a cable works then switch
switch works and how they can connect
with each other when we talk about
wireless networks we use libre mesh and
live a router so that's technology that
we have developed for or them it's open
source so it's the router the Earl and
live Ramesh the leaver router is an open
source hardware for mesh community
networks and libera mesh is a kick free
mesh networks operating system so the
idea is setting aside the the technical
so CJ DNS Batman advanced PM a linux
Babel
all of these are routed dynamic routing
protocols and OSPF all all these
technologies are available for doing
networks that can change over time but
all of that is a complexity that is far
far far beyond the capacities of someone
that has never had indirection with a
computer so leave a mesh what what it
does is it turns networks a gig free
technology the same way I don't know if
you have ever set up a TV dish on your
roof when broadcast television was the
thing but it's basically you put your
television you run a cable from your
house from inside your house to the roof
and you set up an antenna on your
antenna you turn it and trying to get
the best signal possible the best image
possible your TV we tried for the mesh
networks for the mesh being wireless
networks that are interconnected that
were the devices are interconnected to
each other by wireless links and they
talk to each other in order for getting
the message from one place next one for
for that problem to be able to be solved
in them same approach like you set up
you play something in your house you run
a cable to your roof and in your roof
you put an antenna and you point it to
the next neighbor and that's everything
that you need to understand at the
beginning to be able to do
mesh to do the netbook so I have a quick
question you go and yes our is this
experience and I assume this is kind of
your normal practice which is kind of
finding these these communities who tend
to be very off the beaten market path of
kind of Internet infrastructure and
technology rollout and kind of working
with them to like get their hands dirty
with and setting up the underlying
infrastructure are do they tend to have
familiarity with kind of um you know
either
mobile phones or like other forms of
like internet connectivity which just
are less available in their their home
communities or is this kind of really
their first engagement with like using
the internet and using you know
computing technology of any form so it's
kind of all over the place in most of
the communities you find something that
I like phones like Android phones like
cheap Android phones have a very very
deep penetration even in in rural India
where there's no electricity you find
that families have at least one phone
per family and it's kind of the same
entertainment center for the community
for the family so they do have
penetration but for example in this
community I'm showing you they not only
have a wireless network but also they
have their own communica munity cellular
network and in the elder the most elder
members of the communities don't have
they are not literate so they don't know
how to use a smart phone so they use
feature phones and this and they can do
it it's not a problem they learn how to
use the phone in that way like like a
feature phone that is just the numbers
and anything nothing else so they just
remembered a few numbers and they type
them in the phone and they come called
each other without any problem I think
there's another photo of that
later or I think I have already done
that for okay let me show you another
set of photos so we don't show you only
one community so talk spam okay
for example in on duelist so this was
another thing that happens sometime in
rural communities in initiative
communities mainly is that you find
communal realization already there
something that is required for community
networks work is community ownership so
a community network is a network that is
owned maintained expanded and sustained
by the community so in order for that to
happen because no one else is there for
for them to be provided the community
needs to be involved in different
communities have different approaches to
ecology for example in this community
decision on dudas in this community
the council is comprised of people from
both genders in the previous community
the council and the assembly is only
comprised of the people the man that
over 18 years old and this community all
about all of them are part in equal
parts so you can see here this is a
community gathering where we were
discussing about the implicants ease of
bringing Internet to the community let
me see if I have the folder so in you
will see that in many of the communities
we do it our climbing and we try to do
it in both with men and women because
our walls are like you can connect with
each other quite easily without towers
but
when you want to reach another community
or when you want to reach the wider
Internet and and just another
clarification for us in term it from our
description Internet is an unconnected
network goes to networks so it can be
that some parts of the internet like
from when you see when within from the
offline first community like Terry was
saying like it can happen that some of
the nodes are hard some of the hosts of
the internet are disconnected at a
certain point of time because you're
going through how like in a subway or
something somewhere that you're not
connected but also it can happen that a
community that is part of the Internet
is disconnected from the wider Internet
well still that community is part of the
Internet and that's why we discuss with
them how if they want to be part of the
inter and how to shape the Internet in
such a way that will represent them when
they join the intimate and one of the
things that we say is let me see if I
find the fort here so one of the
workshops that we facilitated with them
is about what was like taking a snapshot
of their community before the internet
arrived and before they started doing
the infrastructure and you can see here
so they were they were drawing the the
things that they recognized as valuable
about their community what things are
the key things that represent their
community the girls did a drawing the
guys did a list of things it was
interesting how they did different
approaches to describe their community
but then we said what other things are
part of this community that you haven't
have not drawn what things are those
that you don't want to see about your
community and that's extremely important
because in general we try we end we
describe things in a positive way and
the things that we don't want to see are
those that are magnified more when some
when in demand that is a booster
intimate that is something that speeds
up things
comes out community so we briefly
mentioned like pornography and violence
and like they cared about family so what
will internet mean from families and not
in this community but in another
community in to expand in Mexico one of
the elders said that when the like 50
years of six years ago when he was a kid
he's his grandma said like they we are
we have been told that school and school
is going to a right or community and we
were told that school is good but but
then school came and with school kids
started being apart from their parents
and by doing that the local culture
started buying then the road we were
told that the road was kept coming and
that was good and then the road came and
with a role came supplies from some
other places and we started reading
differently and then we started to have
diabetes because we started drinking
coca-cola and and this was the first
time in their whole life that they had
coca-cola coca-cola and then they had
their babies in their communities so now
we are told that Internet is coming and
Internet we were told that it's good but
now these people come and say ok my
internet might be good for some things
but not for some others so what are we
going to do with it so this listener we
need to reflect a lot about in relation
to how we approach technologies and how
because again technologies are developed
by people that are not there
then so if we want to create a world
that that all worlds fit in that is
diverse and not normalized we want to
plan that we want to serve the
communities that need technology in a
way that allow them to be part of the
design process of the technology that
they will end up using
is awesome but I think we're also about
it 20 minutes so any spots
oh so many thoughts so that would be to
communities of nine that I wanted to
share with you but it's good that thank
you for opening this space and maybe if
you have more-- if you want to dig more
into this we can plan a second iteration
of it so if you have like a lot of video
content that you've created as part of
this that if there's like any links you
want to share with the group here for
them to follow up more maybe I can make
sure it's in our meeting notes as well
so I have I have been uploading quite a
bunch now lately lately so if you go to
how we need a URL there so you can check
them out and please let me know if you
like them what do you think about them
absolutely that's great thank you and
the next item on our agenda was Terry
giving a brief explanation of offline
camp
yeah why don't you go to someone else
first I'm going to need to move myself
and do I think Jonathan had to jump off
a little bit early so general do you
wanna talk about the project you've been
working on yes so actually so my project
is quite different I have is we are in
I'm a nurse Cole and it's end of week
all computer are resets the for security
reason and so computer can reuse it nice
and next students as a next week and
from am is each Monday we can aim to
school and will last at least surfer
s'more nning to just download all the
hacks we have to do or gardening or or
virtual machine to to do or exercise and
it's it's quite easy because we are all
downloading at the same file from fire
fruits or Microsoft for visitors to you
and for people who use visuals to you
and um so my IP was to download all of
this at from from Alan and outdoor well
we would you kill to tear from each room
to another or at least and Runyon's um
in force that I have this thing so I
currently I'm writing the white paper I
don't think it on it but yeah I have
some since she will see it so the main
idea is to use an IP FSU surefire
because in the past I will use a
reference but ipfs performance
performance have been increased so no
need of that and so their lease to use
EP ipfs to show file and to use
our BTB are ptb to share an application
list so it works simply in orbit eBay
you can share a list of risen and in the
this currently you can have one key
which is a rider key and this is a
classic
asymmetry key and if you own the key you
can write in the database so sorry
first lists which is like which is for
the repo maintainer this list have as
writer he's a maintainer itself so only
the maintainer can write in this list
and the first issue has a list of every
developers and the links to order pulsar
DB edit our BTB database which contain
all the information about apps version
of apps so the first thing when a
developers will actually implement a
fact an application in a software he has
to come to a repo maintainer sorry if
the Reformation or other way to being in
history book he had a developer
developer item which contained the item
about the developers a foot you can't
activate the website and the buicks and
also so that's the first thing after you
have that you can have them you can add
application with which I approve of
recruitment as a repo maintainer so the
repo maintainer so I use the show app
and you make an feed for you app and
then the feed is link it to your main -
in the link to your to your at feed is
added in the main repo feed and the
writer key is been you set in the in
your developers in your developers
your developers approvement I forbid the
developer items so only you only the
developers can write in the feed and
feed contain an item provision of
perversion and for each item you have
some information the name of the
Russians changelog link to the binaries
and the links of binary is is simply
some you have a link of different type
of fineries Windows Mac Linux you when
you user want to download an app so see
whether it was not for your user is
simple you choose an authority so repo
it's the same then your net will
subscribe to all the database so if you
have so you have also information of all
the application then you have a list of
application with the Saoirse I want to
install any apps and when you want to
instead of apps the client will go to
edit a base luge for as a binary link
and gets the AP fs5 then just download
IP effects file this is an off ship so
he just took an presumption and execute
install a sash script and that's all aim
my understanding is the aim is that by
kind of having this central list of all
of the kind of files when one user
downloads this file within your network
yes second user downloads or once $2,000
twice because use IP FS so it will sure
between both data and so direct
connection between those two nodes no no
actually it's really use IP FS so for
this um I don't I don't have to care in
fact uh if I'm correct me if I'm wrong
but ipfs using DNS for the Catholics
disc arena so you're using over so he
ever buys that and I've chosen a disc in
discovering as he will shut that down
between both because uh
say we are the fastest nerd and so this
application scientist of these
applications or zords no server but in
fact you Mabley will need the server to
constantly pimp the binary of
application but since for developers
there's no server disease and resilience
if a lot of person downloads the same
apps there is no ah so reason a
diminution of speed because original
central server it's like Germans that's
all I have to say I don't know what to
say more
thank you for description I think I
guess we have Dominic works on the
Goliath EFS team if you have any idea
ves focused questions jim has also done
a lot of prototyping and like building
yes I know they have Gibson's work
you're all of my Christian things I know
Dominic virgin you have any advice or
recommendations about how to kind of
improve the back or anything but also
connection point in case there's
competitions to have lifeline Dominic
just so I come from not necessarily an
education background but I do not love
remembering the times of us spending so
much time ghosting the computers with
Norton Ghost it would take hours to do
that and I love seeing stuff like this
because this is the exact thing I I wish
we had back then for the exact reason
you mentioned of like it's just a waste
of student time to student time and
resources on the computer so I love it
it's great
awesome cool well thank you and anyone
who wants to follow up offline feel free
to Terry are you in a quieter place now
to give your update vaguely its oh you
know the noise is coming from less
clothes so at least less distracting so
Shh find my shirt
[Music]
so I mentioned in my introduction that
uh I run an event called offline camp
which is a essentially like a tech
retreat in the woods and lunch somewhere
for 335 people about the offline first
movement which I want to just be super
clear that the event is not specifically
about the decentralized well it's about
all of the problems that you encounter
when you're up against crappy bandwidth
but a lot of the people who come are
interested in decentralized web as a
solution to that so I wanted to raise it
here because it's a great place if you
would instead of having an hour a month
of conversations about this topic would
like to spend three or four days solid
surrounded by people who care about this
stuff this is the place for you so this
is the website this is last year's event
still here the event will be happening
this summer we have not launched yet so
I'm not going to reveal the exact dates
and location but if you won't want to
make sure you're notified you would
click this join a future camp button
which would take you to this forum you
can watch a video about the camp
experience and when you fill out this
form it'll give you an opportunity both
to give us your email so we can reach
out and let you know when they can't
spend an ounce but also an opportunity
to vote on where we go next our goal is
that the event will circulate and go
more tear up if they're Europeans
interested in coming so that people
don't have to spend as much on travel
and we do also have scholarships
available and if that's helpful to
anyone and then if you want to get a
sense of the kinds of topics we discuss
at applying camp the thing covers up the
zoom thing is covering up where I need
to click um we have a medium publication
medium.com slash offline - camp and you
can see here like for example there's a
whole section on decentralized web like
the crossover between the decentralized
what I find first that you
check out usually what happens is we
were having this sort of communal living
experience we break up into little
groups to do these unconference
discussions about whatever folks are
interested in talking about around the
theme of offline first and then
afterwards we'll ask somebody who was at
that discussion to write it up so the
broader community can take advantage of
that you know we also have the
opportunity for people to do passion
talks and stuff like that but this event
is all about just getting into really
deep conversation with people who are
excited about offline person who might
be coming at it in different ways than
you are exploring different problem sets
so it's really cool we love to get a
diverse audience so the best thing you
can do right now if you have any
interest is to just get yourself on this
forum so we can let you know when we
announce the next event and I'm saying
this now because I suspect we will
launch between now in the next iteration
of this call and this is we actually do
an application process for the event to
make sure that we have a chance to
really explain to people the nature of
this you're in a lodge with other people
it's an interesting experience and make
sure that we're really comfortable that
everyone will adhere to our code of
conduct to make sure that we have a
diverse group so you do want to be at
the top of the list of applications even
though it's an application process so
stay tuned for more on that today we
have questions I can help with now so
thank you so much definitely yeah I was
thinking if it's understand it softly
first and something that we have been
talking with banana cloud also from the
listen device web summit that the third
archive is are amazing is trying to
include more spaces where non coders can
participate and bring their point of
view and their needs and opening those
spaces so do you think Terry that
there's a space for that and so how
would you like to be discussing about
them so we welcome people who are not
just coders there are some people who
come who are more
like business owners or product managers
or stuff like that who are like
interested in the use cases and the
solutions you will like when I started
attending I was not a comer yet and
there certainly was you know there were
conversations that went over my head but
and as people are nominating their own
topics for discussion some of them will
be less super technical and some of them
you'll know are like clearly somebody's
going to get into how do we actually
implement this thing in code but we
would really appreciate that variety of
perspectives to include people who
aren't coders we get web developers we
got UX people we get a few like
businesspeople product people etc I
would say that at least half of the
people are programmers but it doesn't
you certainly don't need to be to come
awesome thank you all right I think I'm
the last person on my agenda I just had
kind of two quick two quick things to
push forward to this group one is that
there is a great write-up from Basco
yeah Vasko Santos who's on the lib p2p
team talking about Bluetooth as a
potential mobile transport he was
specifically looking at web Bluetooth
which is and it's still a work in
progress from a usability stability
perspective but a huge priority for kind
of enabling a whole chunk of use cases
that are pretty impactful for
communities where say they have Android
devices or you know mobile devices but
they may not have as good access to
let's say mobile networks or data is
very expensive or things like that is
using some of the more like mobile
device
p2p options to say synchronize stuff
between your computer and your phone or
synchronize two phones with each other
and share a file back and forth so
that's that's an area that like adding
adding a transport a mobile optimized
transport tool in p2p would be hugely
impactful in terms of
expanding the possible use cases and
device options for kind of running I
keep us there's already a number of
groups who are running ipfs nodes on
mobile I know that that's something that
textile is actively doing open Bazaar is
having a mobile ipfs client there's a an
android client called sweet ipfs which
is sweet and also small and it has only
a subset of the node implemented but
kind of looking forward into the future
and DNS is a great option for when you
have a lot of networked computers on the
same network but when you have kind of
passing across networks and trying to do
this kind of more optimistically finding
finding other options is great so more
common suggestions thoughts on how to do
this I think there's kind of a couple of
paths forward here either
we have other suggestions for different
transports that we should look into
other than Bluetooth or we kind of push
forward on having a Bluetooth spec and
try and either get the lip p2p to do it
team to do it or kind of raise it as a
proposal for someone and it goes we go
you have a hand yes so Dominique no it's
not that many yeah yeah the secular
scholars community has many ways open
source for my client and they have just
implemented Bluetooth transport too so
if you want to look into use cases or
collaborate in the UNIX product I think
yeah I believe it's quite open community
yeah
we have some some connection points to
Dominic so definitely someone we could
connect with but call to action for
anyone else to who's excited and
interested to jump in and help out add
perspectives there the other thing was
just a quick note
someone from the turing institute
reached out to me about kind of an
offline first focused conference they're
having about kind of connecting regions
of the world that are maybe less
connected right now and it's mostly UK
focused right now like the the community
but if anyone is interested in going i
have the contact information of one of
the people who's organizing and is
looking for more non uk-based
contributors so if anyone wants to kind
of get get an intro and be recommended
as someone who might have a useful
perspective either from kind of the and
a research perspective the distributed
network to support those communities
perspective or from kind of a like how
do we analyze and understand these
networks so that we can improve and
optimize over time the network they're
very much come in from like a social
good perspective but also have like a
lot of data analytics background so if
anyone feel free to ping me on github or
through email if anyone wants an intro
and i can pass you along to one of the
conference organizers cool well we are
out of time for today thank you all for
the awesome demos and research reports
and conversation let's keep it going and
I hate probably will we'll be doing some
lightweight okay our mojo asynchronously
in the repo so if anyone has suggestions
for what we should be focused on there
will be an issue there soon for people
to to add ideas or if there's any work
that's happening throughout those and an
ecosystem that we should be just keeping
touch with and continuing to tie
communication threads with and make sure
that the work that gets done is
motivated by these kind of offline
connectivity use cases that's like
another good area to continue that
or awesome well wonderful thank you all
so much for attending and I will see you
next month for your monthly local
offline community working group meetings
cheers everyone